Blake Padrones
11/24/2020
1.What does RPO and RTO stand for and why are they so important? (10 pts)
  RPO stands for the Recovery Time Objective wich is the amout of time which an application can be down without causing damage to your business or company. A RPO or
Recovery Point Objective is the amount of loss that you can withstand without causing significant harm to the business. Knowing the limits of your business's RTO
and RPO is important to know because by adding the RTO and the RPO together you know the time frame in which you need to get your system to work.

2.You have been promoted to Security Officer after a major data breach has occurred and the previous Security Officer resigned.
You discover that there is not on official process for defining a forensic response plan. Your are required to create a detailed
process for the business to follow on all future investigations.. Use Slides from Lesson 19, SP 800-86 and/or A Ten Step Process
for Forensic Readiness.pdf on Canvas. (40 points). This needs to be detailed! You need to cover at least:
1.Establish Authority via Upper Management
2.Essential steps to be taken before an Incident (remember: Incident = BAD!)
3.Reporting policy when an Incident is suspected.
4.Investigation steps.
5.At what point does Law Enforcement get contacted.
6.Restoration of services.
7.Lessons learned/mandatory reporting.

    First 1-2 people will be in charge of data logging. They will be in charge of keeping logs secure and looking for discrepancies in them that might indicate an attack has occurred. These people
will also be in charge of a Incident response team that is responsibly for dealing with an attack when it occurs. Our response team will having regular trainings on how to response to various
situations as well as how to prepare evidence to submit to police. Also for our first responders, we will provide tools to aide with initial investigation such as PC's with forensic tools, backup
hard drives, work PC's to replace compromised workstations, and a contact list for members of the Incident response team. When a first responder finds a computer that is thought to be infected,
they are to make several copy of the computer using previously stated forensic tools. One copy will be used to investigate while the others will be dated and logged as evidence if police is needed.
All evidence recorded to be found on the hard drive or any of the subsequent copies will be documented with time, date, photo, and reason of suspicion. This Documentation will then be submitted to the
leader of the Incident response team, then myself, to decide on further action legal or otherwise. Once investigation of the PC is over the owner of the PC will be allocated a replacement workstation
and will be asked for a list of data that may need to be recovered from the old PC. Along with this the incident will be documented to bring up on annual threat model meetings and prevention methods
for a similar incident will be enacted upon immediately.



3.You are the Information Security Officer for a medical device design company working on new style of ventilator and the software
that controls it. The software also sends data to central application for analysis and receives instructions if changes are needed.
 What development model will you use for the software and what sort of Code Review would be required? Yes, this is Life-Safety!  (10 pts)

      For this application, it is extremely important since it would risk a life if it were to fail or otherwise be broken either accidentally or on purpose. Therefore I believe that
this application go through a rigorous amount of review and security checks. This leads me to suggest the Spiral model of software development. This method is best because you can loop the
development cycle until the product is acceptable. This method also has a stage for risk analysis which is a perfect time to conduct formal code review. The planning and engineering
stages of this method of development are also a good time for peer desk checks which I believe would be helpful since more eyes on a project can potentially spot more security risks or bugs
Ultimately this is the best method because it allows the program to be seen by many people rigorously, and multiple times which is the best way to ensure security in a project.

4.DRP Scenario (40 Points):
You are the newly hired Information Security Officer for an organization that houses a 20,000 sq foot data center which houses
storage for medical records and processes insurance claims. The company only works with United States businesses to avoid International
regulations, however they still process International payments on behalf of the US Business. The data center is located in southern Louisiana
 in the flood plain of the Mississippi and is also close enough to the gulf coast to be affected by storm surge during a major hurricane.

Here are the specifics of the data center and operations presented to you by the staff at your first meeting:

Generator: Not large enough generator to keep both the IT components and the HVAC running at the same time.

UPS: They do have a UPS capable of keeping all servers and HVAC running for 15 minutes.

BCP/DRP: Nothing currently documented.

Backups: Onsite disc-to-disc backups using incremental type of a backup plan. There are no offsite copies. Backups run nightly and have a very hard time completing overnight. This is becoming an increasing problem

Data Segregation: Each client has a segregated storage area.

Data Protection: Data not encrypted at rest. Servers are running  AntiVirus. No host firewall

Networking: Router ACL’s only, no stateful firewall, no IDS/HIDS

Internet: Single ISP providing 1000Mbit connection is nearly saturated currently

Servers: all are real hardware running raid storage system, one or more server per client depending on their needs. Must install new hardware as capacity grows for client. This can require replicating data over to the new installation resulting in data being offline for the client during the process.

Operations Personnel: One network engineer who knows all the router configs/passwords who doesn’t share with his assistants. Two system admins who insist on writing all the mission critical code themselves but do not allowed to be code reviewed. Data center does have at least one person monitoring the system 24/7. However when issues arise, the person is over tasked in processing the events. There is no CIRT. The rest of the staff live anywhere from 30 minutes to 2 hours away.

System Administrators: All share the root/admin password

Budget: Limited currently, but executives are concerned and willing to allocate whatever you need.

Change Management: No formal change management exists. Configurations are not backed up on network devices. Systems at least have their configurations backed up.

Risk management: Nothing formal, but most of the staff are extremely worried about the business be able to continue in case of an emergency. Not to mention the businesses would not have access to financial records.

Data Center Wiring: has little to no cable management. Mistakes happen with wiring.

Your first duty assigned to you by the executive board is document risks and problem areas. You need to establish a risk classification on each limitation you identify as well as to provide a remediation for all items you’ve identified.  Based upon your input and marketing, the budget will be determined accordingly. (this should be a fairly detailed at a high level, document when finished).
